This last one is about really focusing on how do you beat this?
How do you get out of it?
And how does that happen?
So our scripture is taken from John chapter eight and verse 36.
The Bible says, if the son therefore shall make you free, you shall be free indeed.
And so beating addiction and healing the brain, the power of the Adventist health message.
Let's pray, Father God, we thank you for
this opportunity to continue on our study and to move forward.
And we're asking for your Holy Spirit, Lord, again to lead as we address these issues and look for solutions, Lord, that are centered in Christ.
Be with us now, Lord.
We pray this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
So the Bible story I'm going to look at for this is I'm going to start in Matthew 4 and we're going to go to Mark 1.
Matthew 4 says, then was Jesus led up of the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil.
And when he had fasted 40 days and 40 nights, he was afterward and hungry.
Mark says it like this.
And immediately the spirit drive with him into the wilderness.
And he was there in the wilderness, 40 days tempted of Satan and was with the wild beasts and the angels ministered unto him.
To really understand Christ, you have to understand the Bible says he was tempted in all points as are we yet without sin.
He took on our infirmities, the Bible says.
That means every desire, everything from thirst to hunger to ailments like fatigue, Christ experienced them all.
And I would have to argue, there was probably no part of it that the devil did not attack him more on, on those things that are attached to the dopamine system we talked about.
And here's one of those places.
Here, Jesus is in the wilderness 40 days.
He's fasting for 40 days.
There are three people in the Bible.
The Bible says fast in 40 days.
Who are they?
Moses, Elijah, and Jesus.
Interesting, huh?
Because then they're reunited on the Mount of Transfiguration.
So here he is fasting.
And 40 days of fasting is like the point at which your body can actually die.
Like that's the outer limits of how long you can fast.
So Jesus is at his weakest physical point.
Food releases dopamine.
So he's at a place where
You know, that sensation is what he's after.
He's there with the wild beasts, the angels are ministering to him.
Verse three says, and when the tempter came to him, when Satan came to him, he said, if you are the Son of God, command that these stones be what?
Command that these stones be made bread.
But he answered and said, it is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God.
Satan comes to Jesus looking like an angel of light.
He comes down as if he is on the father's side.
He uses the same strategy here.
He uses Eve in the garden.
And one of the questions he asks, he says, listen, if you are the son of God, Satan comes with this if to try and get Jesus to doubt.
If you are the son of God, command that these stones be made bread.
Now,
If you go to that part of the world, the stones are smooth.
In fact, they almost look like loaves of bread sitting there.
I wonder sometimes if Satan supernaturally try to make the smell of bread away from off the stones.
Right?
I don't know.
But Jesus is not his dopaminergic system.
His drive for survival is trumped by one thing.
When you go here, he says, it is written.
Jesus says it is written.
With this, Jesus gives us an example of how you beat the flesh.
Desire of Ages, page 116.
Many look on this conflict between Christ and Satan as having no special bearing on their own life.
And for them, it has little interest.
But within the domain of every human heart, this controversy is repeated.
Never does one leave the ranks of evil for the service of God without encountering the assaults of Satan.
The enticements which Christ resisted
were those that we find it so difficult to withstand.
They were urged upon Him in as much greater degree as His character is superior to ours.
With the terrible weight of the sins of the world upon Him, Christ was stood to test upon appetite, upon the love of the world, and upon that love of display which leads to presumption.
These were the temptations that overcame Adam and Eve, and that so readily overcome us.
And the difference is our nature is corrupted,
We have this desires and Satan, Satan sees the environment you grew up in.
He sees what you liked, what you didn't like.
He watches as you are victimized or experienced trauma or neglect.
And the devil sees these things and he sets a plan in place.
We spend hours, years sometimes of our lives, not even considering what Satan is planning.
And while we're ignoring his existence, he is plotting our destruction.
That is how Satan operates and he studies you when, when, if you, if you, if you, if someone walks by that you're attracted to and you look at them the way you look at them, Satan reads your face and knows what it is you're extracting from that person.
Our nature is corrupted in a Dr. James Kyle, brilliant physician and pastor.
He had a saying when he, when he would talk, he said this, your body will conspire to kill you.
If you give yourself everything you desire, everything you want, everything you beg for, everything you, your body will desire, your body will conspire to kill you.
So how do you get this all under control?
Interesting factoid here.
The statistics are bleak.
Only 8% of people who make New Year's resolutions stick to them.
And those who don't usually abandon them after just one week,
So that's what I would say.
If you want to go to the gym, just wait till January 9th and all the machines open again.
Treadmill's empty, right?
And I said this before, but one of the things the devil is doing, if you're going to fight addiction and all of these traps of sin, this equation is an important equation to understand.
Stress equals demands minus resources.
Stress equals demands.
We talked about this before.
And what the devil is trying to do is give you false resources.
What I came to tell you today, if you want to beat the stress equation, one, you reduce the demands, you don't feed the flesh, but then you find those heavenly resources.
You find those things that God gives that can actually give you victory, right?
And so one of the chemicals involved in this is the chemical gap.
So tomorrow morning, we're really going to go deep into
how this all plays out spiritually.
The body is the sanctuary.
Somebody's asking me about it.
All how we're going to lay that out tomorrow morning.
One of the neurochemicals in the brain is GABA.
Gamma, amino-butyric acid.
What it does, it is like the breaks.
It slows down the brain, inhibits, helps you to control yourself.
Both alcohol and marijuana knock this out.
So that you're disinhibited.
That's why that guy, when I was talking to the guy
You know, the drive-by shootings, he said what he said, because that's how you knock it out.
You become disinhibited and you'll do things you otherwise would never do.
What we understand about this then is that when the Bible says the love of Christ constrains us, I believe in the most holy place in your brain, the frontal lobe and the prefrontal cortex specifically, the Holy Spirit works there to pull the levers to get control.
And if you allow the Holy Spirit to work in your mind, if you set the stage properly for the Holy Spirit to work in your mind, the Holy Spirit will get you back where you're supposed to be.
Here's one of the things, a lesson I've learned, and I learned this from, I think it was Roger Reynolds books, incredible answers to prayers.
He says, sometimes when you pray, what you've got to say is God, I give you permission to work on this thing.
We pray some weak prayer sometimes.
Lord, you know, if it's your will, if you'll do...
Listen, when I'm praying for people I love who are not in the Lord, I say, God, I give you permission to work on their heart for your Holy Spirit to go in.
Because true love, if you really get experienced Christ's love, he says, if you love me, keep my commandments.
So people talk about how much they experience God's love, but if you really love him,
You're not trying to go break the commandments.
You're not looking for an excuse or a reason.
There are too many Christians trying to find a back door into glory.
Right?
So, Gabba is important.
It's that control mechanism.
And it goes with this verse, 2 Corinthians 5.14, for the love of Christ constrains us.
Because we thus judge, why does his love constrain us?
Because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead.
In other words, it is what Christ did for us on the cross.
This is why LoI says you should contemplate the cross for like an hour a day.
Something happened.
I'm telling you, when I was a kid, I had an aunt Eva.
My aunt, she'd come in from Rhode Island and she was a very serious Adventist lady.
And we loved when she came because she made real good stuff.
But my brother and I would always tremble because she'd wake us up to have worship for her in the morning.
And so she'd get us up at 5, 36 o'clock in the morning.
to have worship with her, and we would just be like, man, all Tiva coming.
We'd have to wake up early.
And she'd wake us up, and let me tell you something.
She would have worship with us in the morning, and she'd begin to read the Bible, and she would always read something about the crucifixion.
And every time she would begin to weep.
And I remember being a little kid, you know, I was in elementary school, and my brother and I just being like, why does she read the Bible?
She started crying all the time.
Nobody else cries when they read the Bible.
Why is she crying?
Let me tell you something.
I learned lady on my aunt used to be addicted to cigarettes.
I mean, this lady was a vegan.
She was a vegan way back when vegan wasn't even popular.
She, I found out later on she was, she used to drink heavily, smoke, you know, follow none of God's laws and practices.
When she read the story of the cross, she wept because she realized what her sins cost her savior.
Let me tell you something.
You behave differently when you realize that every time you sin, you crucify Christ afresh.
It changes the way you live.
If you actually love him, you're not trying to crucify him again.
Well, you go to some churches and they will basically preach that you can live however you want.
Really?
He died for us.
That changes everything, right?
It is God's love, it's God's love works to give us self-control.
Desire of Ages, page 122.
In our own strength it is impossible for us to deny the clamors of our fallen nature.
Through this channel Satan will bring temptation upon us.
Christ knew that the enemy would come to every human being to take advantage of hereditary weakness and by his false insinuations to ensnare all whose trust is not in God.
Watch this.
And by passing over the ground, which man must travel, our Lord has prepared the way for us to overcome.
It is not his will that we should be placed at a disadvantage in the conflict with Satan.
He would not have us intimidated and discouraged by the assaults of the serpent.
Be of good cheer, he says.
I have what?
I've overcome the world.
I want to tell you that when we talk about righteousness by faith,
Righteousness by faith says, since he overcame, I can overcome by faith.
When we talk about wearing the robe of Christ's righteousness, it's not some arbitrary garment you put on.
It is his character that you put on.
He says, I have overcome the world.
You think you can't overcome?
Well, let me introduce you to Jesus.
Let him who is struggling against the power of appetite, addiction,
Look to the Savior in the wilderness of temptation.
See Him in His agony upon the cross.
As He exclaimed, I thirst.
He has endured all that is possible for us to bear.
His victory is what?
Ours.
We're talking, somebody asked me about the verse in the Proverbs where it says, give strong drink to the poor.
And actually I looked it up on the break.
It actually says, give strong drink to those who perish.
And some argue that what it really represents is
Um, like, like, like, almost like a hospice tree.
Like you can give somebody strong drink as they die or that because of the strong drink, they're perishing, right?
But when you look at this Jesus on the cross that I first, what did they bring him?
Vinegar and gall to drink.
Why did Jesus reject it?
If he was thirsty because it would have changed his sensorium, it would have lightly at least
intoxicated him.
He could not go through the agony of the cross, carry our sins and risk getting tipsy in any way as he tried to carry that out.
You could argue if there was a time he could have taken a whatever that was in the ball that would mess up his brain and numb his brain.
That's what a Romans did it.
Jesus said, no, I will, I will go through the agony sober.
That's why the cross is so important.
He has walked the ground.
We are called to walk.
And His righteousness will give us the strength to walk that same walk in victory.
Watch this.
He does not call you to victory simply in a vague type of manner.
He calls you to victory from a position of victory.
He did not consent to sin.
Not even by a thought did he yield to temptation.
So it may be with us.
Christ's humanity was united with divinity.
He was fitted for the conflict by the indwelling of the Holy Spirit.
And he came to make us partakers of the divine nature.
So long as we are united to him by faith, sin has what?
No more dominion over us.
He came to make us partakers of the divine nature.
That is character.
And this is the trouble.
We live in a time when people are more worried about their skin color than their character.
More worried about their culture than their character.
They're better patriots than they are Christians.
Let me tell you something.
What's going to matter in the end, we talked about earlier, is your character.
And all this stuff we're talking about is a statement of how the devil is coming after your character.
And if you say, you know what, I give up the, you know, I can't fight this fight.
The devil wins a battle that Christ already won for you.
God reaches for the hand of faith in us to direct it to lay fast hold upon the divinity of Christ that we may attain to perfection of character.
And how this is accomplished, Christ has shown us by what means that he overcome in the conflict with Satan.
How did he do it?
By the word of God.
Only by the word can he resist temptation.
It is written, he said, and unto us are given exceeding great and precious promises that by these you may be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.
How do you do it?
It's God's word.
Too many, let me tell you something.
Let me tell you what happened to people.
They go to church on Sabbath and that's the only time they hear the word of God.
Let me tell you something.
You ought not go to church to be filled.
That's why a lot of churches and people talk so bad about church and church experience and all this.
That's because you go in the church to be filled up.
You ought to go to church full.
Your worship experience all week should be pouring into the church.
I'm talking to one person and they're like, you know, well, I got to get hip hop into the church.
Young people listen to hip hop.
If we don't get hip hop into the church, how in the world are we going to keep the young people?
I say, you think you can out hip hop the world?
The studies don't show that young people stop going to church because the church worship style isn't wild enough or hip enough.
People, the young people, when they're surveyed, say they left the church because they didn't know what they believe.
Having escaped the corruption of the world through lust.
She continues, every promise in God's word is ours.
How many promises?
Every one of them.
Let me tell you something.
I have fallen in love with the promises of God.
By every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God, are we to live when assailed by temptation, look not to circumstances or to the weakness of self, but to the power of the word.
All its strength is yours.
You know what a problem for a lot of us is?
We have not tapped into the power of God's word.
I say this all the time.
Some of you heard my testimony.
I give the testimony, I always say it.
There's a song we used to sing at MV that then became AY.
Some of y'all are old enough to remember MV, Missionary Volunteer.
We used to sing a song that said, with Jesus in the vessel, you can smile at the storm.
Let me let you in on a secret.
The storm is never the problem.
The problem is whether or not you got Jesus in your vessel.
Because if Jesus is in the vessel, the vessel can't sink.
That's why he slept when the disciples were worried, trying to shovel all the water out of the boat.
And they run up to the master, cares down, not that we perish.
And he's over, Jesus is yawning and stretching, gets up in the rain and the lightning is like, peace be still.
How come y'all ain't got no faith?
Then he goes back to sleep.
Listen, if Jesus is in the vessel, you can actually smile at the storm, right?
Every promise in the Word of God is yours.
Here it is.
Desire of Ages page 122.
Thy Word says the psalmist, have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee.
By the Word of your lips I have kept me from the paths of the destroyer.
How do you keep yourself?
It's the Word.
I'm staying on this for a reason because many people are going to ask, how do I gain victory over these things?
And I'm telling you, if you do not have a serious devotional life,
If you are not in the Word of God multiple times a day, you are losing out on the strongest medicine for breaking addiction chains.
When people have anxiety and depression, you go to a doctor in America, I'm a doctor, I can say this.
You go to a doctor in America, they will see you for seven minutes and prescribe you Prozac and send you on your way to deal with your depression or your anxiety.
You know the actual studies actually say,
that exercise is one and a half times more effective than any of the anxiolytics or antidepressant medicines we give.
How many doctors ask you how much you exercise?
How well you sleep?
What I'm telling you is, when you go to deal with these things, it is God's way that works.
And the Word of God is the best medicine.
For a lot of people, their study of the Bible is superficial.
I challenge every family.
I'm off the subject again, but here we go.
Every family with children should have not just evening and morning worship.
In the morning, you might not always have the longest worship.
That's all right.
You can just read the book of Proverbs, the book of Psalms, have a prayer, have the kid talk about a thought, 15, 20 minutes.
Everybody's got to scatter.
At night you can have a longer worship.
And one of the worships a day at least should not just be, you just have a kind of a worship.
It should have two things, intentionality.
And it should also have a curriculum.
If you are raising a child, you should know that by the time they're X age old, they can explain to you why they keep the Sabbath.
Because when they go to college, woo, some of y'all, how many of you have been to non Christian college or university?
Let me tell you something, man, they come for you.
I mean, I took a comparative anatomy class at the University of Alabama in Huntsville once a semester when I was at Oakwood.
And that guy, that professor taught evolution like it was the gospel.
He preached it with a cadence.
If you don't know the Word of God, you're in trouble.
So one of the things I'm gonna talk about it more later on, but if you ever hear me preach, I bring this up.
And I don't know if there's an app.
Maybe somebody in here is an app designer.
Maybe I can get an AI to design me an app.
I don't know.
When I used to work for the addiction medicine, well, I'll prevent a medicine program at the VA hospital in Loma Linda.
And Dr. Linda Ferry is a brilliant doctor.
We have some really good docs there.
Dr.
Ask was one of the addiction specialists.
One of the things we did to help people get off a nicotine is that we had to make up index cards.
I don't know if people even still use index cards no more.
But index cards are still good.
It's like a key.
It kind of don't go out of style.
You know what I'm saying?
So you get an index card and here's what you do.
We talked about today, there's 20 cigarettes in a pack.
We would, I would make the veterans make up an index card for each cigarette in the pack.
And what you would have to do on one side of the card, you'd have to write a Bible promise.
I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.
So I'm 3419.
Many of the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers them out of them all.
Right?
No temptation has come among you.
All promises, promises, promises, promises, promises.
20 of them.
Then what you do on the back of each car is you have to write one reason you want to quit smoking.
And then what I'd have, what I'd have, a lot of them would say, I want to be alive to see my granddaughter graduate from high school.
Or some of them would say, I want to be there to walk my daughter down the aisle.
You know, whatever the thing was.
And here's what I learned.
Fear is a poor motivator.
I can show people pictures of black lungs and all kinds of lung cancer and all that stuff.
It does not work as good as if I can get them to want to quit because they want to quit for someone they love.
You see what I'm saying?
So a lot of times we come up here and we try and scare them to live right.
That don't work as good as if they are loving to live right.
Right?
So here it is.
You put the Bible promise on one side, reason to quit on the other side.
And what it does is it moves the decision from the automatic habit pathway we talked about earlier and the addiction pathways back to the frontal lobe where you can make a decision about this.
I saw sometimes that some of the men who really did it faithfully and we, cause we wouldn't even tell them to quit.
We would say, listen, your quit date is two weeks from now.
They would read the two sides of the card before they had a second.
If they did it, that individual cigarette now was seen as a threat to what they loved.
and to the promise God made to them.
And their smoking would naturally just come down.
I want to submit to you that this technique still works.
And it can work for almost anything.
So as you're doing this, if someone is addicted to pornography, they might want to, besides some of the other stuff we're going to talk about here in a second, you might want to put a stack of these index cards there.
And before you turn on your laptop iPad folder, you got to read the two sides of the card.
If power,
in the word of God.
So it actually will work as like a sword as the Bible tells us.
Ephesians 4, 22 says that you put off concerning the former conversation of the old man which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts and be renewed in the spirit of your mind and that you put on the new man which after God is created in righteousness and what?
And true holiness.
If you follow what God says, you become a new creature in Christ Jesus.
They sing a song in Jamaica, they sing, all things are passed away.
All things are gone.
I'm a new creation.
I'm a brand new man.
That's what I'm telling you today.
Your brain may have been scarred and damaged by past behavior, but I came to tell you God can make your brand new.
If you follow him, he can make you brand new and he does not barter in shame.
He's not asking you to become new and make you pass through a feeling of shame and worthlessness.
It's the opposite.
He's asking you to be brand new and saying to you, you are priceless.
You are worth so much.
He left his throne on glory to be born in a smelly manger.
I want you to think about that, to die on a lonely cross and he would have done it if you were the only one that needed saving.
That is the power of who Jesus Christ is.
So the question I get all the time is, can we recover from the damage done to the mind and the character?
If we've done all these, babe, we've smoked weed, if we've done, watch porn, if we smoke cigarettes, if we slept around, can my brain heal?
All those things create the bountains at the first level.
They do that change the pathways through the habits.
First line of damage.
We talked about how it damages the dopamine system in the brain.
We talked about all that stuff.
And the question you get is, can the brain heal?
Can you recover from such damage?
Right?
So let's look at it.
The Bible verse I use when I worked in addiction medicine is this one, Joel 225.
It says, and I will restore to you the years that the locus has eaten.
My Bible says that God can restore.
And again, this is a Bible promise.
This is the promise given he can restore.
I don't care how many hours of pornography you've watched.
My God says he can restore.
So let's look at some science groundbreaking neuroscience study finds striking similarities in the brains of pornography addicts and drug addicts.
And so we talked about this a little bit already and you can see the studies here.
I show you that so that I can show you this, right?
This is brain recovery with prolonged abstinence.
Here it is, the healthy control.
You see that?
That's a normal brain.
This is from crystal methamphetamine, use disorder.
One month of abstinence.
You see how the brain already starts to heal?
14 months of abstinence.
Look at the brain.
Powerful, isn't it?
Even when I was in medical school, they used to teach us, your brain can't really change.
It can't heal.
In fact, some people would say by the time you're eight years old, basically your character is formed.
What they didn't know then, we know now.
It's called neuroplasticity.
The brain can actually change.
And since I may not get to it later, let me just hit it now.
Here's how it changes with the new start, the natural process of what the Bible talks about.
Our health message actually does it.
A few key things.
One of them is sunlight.
When you get up at night, I encourage you to go and listen to Dr. Roger Schweld's talks.
on Light as Medicine on Audioverse.
He's also on one of the top podcasts in the world.
Diary of a CEO is Roger Schwelt.
I can't tell you how to spell that, sorry.
It's a very German name.
I don't know.
Speaking to chat, GPTS, I don't know how many have come up.
But it's powerful.
The sunlight in the morning begins to regenerate the mind.
That what you're asking coffee to do to make you awake, God designed that sunlight do that for you in the morning.
Knock off all the melatonin out of your brain and get you going again.
That's what God has designed.
We'll talk more about melatonin when I remember to get to it tomorrow.
That's what God has designed for you.
Sunlight early in the morning.
Exercise.
I talked to you about how exercise is better than anti-depressants and anti-anxiety medications.
Exercise makes the brain, once again, able to regenerate.
So, listen, just walking to and from this hotel, everybody brain up in here, gonna just come back to normal, huh?
The third thing is sleep.
When you sleep, the brain heals.
There is something that happens in the brain that when you sleep, it actually cleans the brain, right?
And so it's the,
It is the fluid in the brain.
I'm blanking on it, but the brain actually cleans the fact the brain shrinks down as if you think of like New York City and in order to sweep the streets, all the buildings shrink to really small so you can get really get in there and clean the streets.
Every night your brain does that.
If you don't sleep, you can't clean out the garbage that happened to your brain.
This is why I'm so as I say, you know, caffeine is not good because it messes with all of that.
Right?
So sleep does it.
And I told you earlier, sleep also allows you to heal from trauma.
It is nature's therapist.
You still may need a therapist, but sleep is one of the lines where you pride.
Even when you go to therapist and you're processing things, sleep is how that happens.
It helps it to, to clean up plant based diets.
Do the same thing, help the brain to regenerate prayer, getting into the fadeaways, having that spiritual connection to God.
helps heal and regenerate the brain.
As people are being pulled away from God and religion in North America, isn't it fascinating, right?
That it is one of the actual things, the fellowship and the spirituality are part of what would actually help heal the brain.
And it is one of the things that's being starved.
A psychiatrist for the British Royal Society of Psychiatrists once said, if
religion and spirituality was, if it wasn't for the fact that it's religion and spirituality that got the effects it got, every doctor in the world would prescribe it.
But because it's religion and people don't want you, you know, the world is so secular, they're not suggesting you the benefits that come from it.
So when you look at it, 14 months of abstinence, the brain begins to heal.
It begins to go back to normal.
I'm telling you this because somebody thinks they've done what they've done and there's no hope.
I'm telling you that there is power in the name of the Lord.
So here's an even better breakdown by drug, alcohol.
After three to 12 months, the dopamine system is restored.
Cognitive recovery, six months to two years, and you get back the cognitive losses.
The cravings fade, it takes months to years.
Somebody who drank alcohol seven years later, they may still sometimes get a craving for it.
but it begins to fade eventually.
Cocaine, dopamine systems are stored in six to 12 months.
Cognitive recovery, one to two years.
The cravings fade six plus months.
Methamphetamines, dopamine restored one to two years.
Cognitive recovery, two plus years.
Opiates, same thing, cannabis.
Dopamine restored in just one to six months.
That system begins to recover.
You get cognitive recovery in six months, and the cravings can fade in as little as three to six months.
Right?
Benzodiazepines.
You can see, read the numbers there.
One year, the cravings fade.
Here's what you're being told.
That if you are faithful to God, He will restore the land that the locusts have eaten.
I came to tell you that there's no reason to lose hope.
Now, what they don't, they haven't done these studies on, I haven't seen them on pornography addictive brains or sexually addicted brains.
That's why I showed you the slide that,
pornography and drug addiction, the brain looks the same.
I believe that if you can be abstinent, the healing happens the same way.
If you can do what God says you can be restored, regardless of whatever your addiction was.
That is a powerful statement because the God wants to deliver all of us.
I love this verse, verse Corinthians six.
I'm going to read all the way through 11, but verse six, verse 10 of first Corinthians six says this, North, I'm sorry, verse nine.
No, you're not.
that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God.
Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God.
And you read this and you might say, well, there's no hope for me.
I've gone so far.
There's no way God is going to save me, except for verse 11.
The Bible says, and such were some of you.
Did you get that?
That's how you used to be.
Yeah, but you are washed.
You are sanctified.
You are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the spirit of our God.
My Bible tells me you may have been whatever you were, but when you come to Christ and submit it all to him, it's what you were.
That's not who you are anymore.
You're a new creature in Christ Jesus.
So the Bible teaches here.
Right?
Sanctified, justified.
You've been washed in the blood.
I love what the Bible says about this.
My Bible teaches that when God forgives you of your sin, your sin is taken and cast into the depths of the sea.
And my Bible says God remembers your sin no more.
Satan wants you in shame.
Satan wants you going there.
And you know what the Bible teaches?
God forgets what you did.
We read about David and Bathsheba.
Do you know later on in the Old Testament, it speaks about David as if he never sinned?
I remember someone saying Bible study with someone and they said, how could the Bible say this when we slept with Bathsheba and killed her husband?
Because God is willing to forget what you've done.
Here's the kicker.
Why can't you?
He thrown your sins into the depths of the sea.
Why are you going and putting on deep sea diving outfits?
Getting a deep sea fishing boat.
80% of the ocean surface has never been explored and you want to go look for your sin.
I came to tell you today is gone.
In Christ Jesus, there are books in heaven and one of them is the book of works.
And in heaven, if you've accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior and been justified it before you even get to sanctification, you've been justified.
Your sin has been blotted out.
The blood of Christ has blotted out your sin on judgment day.
When your name comes up before the entire universe, metaphorically, and you're standing there in front of the whole universe, and it says, Eric Walls, you're up.
And the film of my life begins to play in the backdrop like a movie.
And it gets to the parts where I would be ashamed, where I'd be embarrassed if I am in Christ Jesus.
That screen goes blood red.
Nobody gets to see it.
That's why the prodigal, when he gets to the house, the father says, go and get the best robe.
Whose robe was the best robe?
The father's robe.
He covered his son in his own robe to cover his son's filth.
I want to be covered in my father's robe.
Such were some of you.
Manuscript 156, 1904.
Now Christ drank.
the bitter cup for us.
What are you willing to deny yourselves for Christ?
There is a world to save and every indulgence of appetite, like tobacco, like alcohol drinking, all these are not food for the system.
It is death for the system.
You are taking away the underpinning of your house and indulging the appetite for liquor.
in indulging the appetite for tobacco, which is a poisonous narcotic are throwing their marijuana and all the other stuff.
And it's been numbing the sensibilities of the brain.
Do you profess to believe in Christ?
Then you are priests in your household.
Men, you are a priest in your house.
There's a responsibility that sits on you, not just to worry about your salvation, but even if you don't have a family today, you ought to be training for when you do.
You ought to be preparing young men to one day stand as priests of God in your home.
Your first and most important mission field will not be to go to the far reaches of the world.
It will be to reach those in your house.
And you can't do it if now, rather than training for priesthood, you're training to be worldly.
Do you profess to believe in Christ?
Beating addiction.
Here we go.
There's the list.
The first, they always talk about this.
You know the people, the two men who came up with Alcoholics Anonymous were both Christians.
If you ever get a chance, maybe tomorrow morning, if I remember, I'll show it, the entire Serenity Prayer.
It is very Christian.
They cut it off, most of it.
And just leave you a little peace because that's the part that won't offend anybody.
And when they were coming up with it, that's why the first thing they say is that you got to admit that you have a problem.
The problem a lot of people, remember the study, the pornography study and half the Christians were like, you know, I'm okay with the problem I have.
I'm not going to, you've got to say, I have a problem.
I am weak.
Paul does that in second Corinthians.
He talks about it.
He says, he says he has a, you know, he had a thorn in the flesh.
You've got to be willing to admit the thorn.
It's not, and it's not pretty because it's not just that you confess and repent to God.
My Bible says if you confess your faults one to another so that you might be healed for the effectual fervent prayers of a righteous man does what?
It avails much.
So you've got to be willing to talk about it.
Now you can't, now granted you can't talk to everybody about it, but you got to have some folk you can trust as we'll talk about.
Second, we already talked about look to Christ, not to self, nor to your failures.
I want to challenge somebody today who wants to be free to say, all right, rather than me staying in my sin or beat myself up for what I did, I am going to move from there and I'm going to move to a place where I am focused on Jesus.
And I have learned that if you are in the Word of God, and so again, when you drive in your car, who told you you had to listen to music in your car?
Who told you that lie?
You didn't listen to music in your car.
Stop listening to music in your car.
You said, but it's Christian music.
Stop listening to that too.
Not that it's wrong, just don't listen to it, because I got something better for you to listen to.
I want you to go on audio verse.
And I want you to get one of the animated versions of the Bible.
And I want you to listen to that in your car.
I want you to see what happens when you drive around and just let the word of God bathe around on your brain.
When you listen to a Psalm, like Psalm 30, I love Psalm 30, and you can just listen to that thing over and over again and just let the word of God just bounce around in your car.
The demons don't know what to do when that happens.
I want to challenge you that when you say, you know, I need to read more Ellen White.
I want to challenge you.
You go on the EG white website and you get books like the desire of ages steps to Christ, Christ object lesson.
And when you drive around your car, you listen to those books.
I'm going to tell you that when you start to do that, you will change.
When you begin to lift Jesus up at all turns, the demons have no way in, right?
So you've got to start looking to Christ.
Sect third, find accountability.
There are two levels to this.
The first is you got to find accountability with someone you can trust who will not lead you down the wrong path.
So it don't make sense now you fool around and you looking for accountability and you get the other dude in class that was smoking weed.
That might not be the best guy to get accountability with.
Right?
Y'all might at least want a third person in the group.
One that ain't smoking weed, right?
So you want to find accountability.
And let me say this.
Many of our men's ministries groups, they've got to move past simply being a Super Bowl party in February.
Our men's ministry group got to move past that and it's got to move to where we actually hold each other up, hold each other accountable and say, listen, stop behaving like a pauper.
You're a priest.
So you gotta go home and say, listen, rile up the men's ministry group.
Rile up the women's ministry group.
Let them be powerful in working in the church.
Because the other level of accountability comes from finding a good Christian therapist.
The word Christian is very important.
I prefer to be Adventist Christian, but at least they gotta be able to pray.
If they won't pray with you when you do therapy, don't get therapy from them.
And when I say pray, I mean pray to Jesus.
You can pray to something else that ain't gonna count.
You go to some of the alcohols, and the people say, my higher power is the doorknob.
Seriously, the doorknob can be a higher power.
How is that possible?
How is it a higher power if you control it?
The higher power that they talked about when they created Alcoholics Anonymous, Narcotics Anonymous, the 12 Steps, the Big Book, when they created all that stuff, the higher power they were talking about was Jehovah God.
So you've got to have that.
So you want a therapist that understand that.
This is where the professional help comes in.
And you may need more than just professional help from a therapist.
You may really need to see a psychiatrist.
I mean, you may need something more serious.
But you got to become mindful.
You've got to move the behavior back from your subconscious mind into your conscious mind.
And that's where the index cards come in.
That's where the daily reminders come in.
You can put reminders on your phone.
And they can come up and pop up and remind you of stuff.
And let me tell you something, man, if you really want to make your wife happy, put some reminders on your phone just to text your wife, honey, you're so sweet.
I love you.
Watch what happened.
Mess around and do it and see what happened, right?
Daily reminders and during the day, have something come up and say, you are worth victory.
God died for you because what happens, I have seen some of the most talented, sometimes handsome, beautiful people, smart people and you will see them break down as you're talking to them crying because they don't see their worth.
I'm not sure I am worth it.
You all upset a reminder because the devil, that's exactly what he wants you to think.
The woman was caught in the act of adultery.
She was laying there in the dirt.
What did Jesus see?
Everybody else saw someone of no value.
Someone of infinite value.
Listen, we are all that woman on the ground.
Every single one of us, there are stones ready to hit us.
That's what the devil wants.
It's Jesus that comes to our aid and says, we are your accusers.
Neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more.
Six, we're going to talk about this in depth tomorrow.
You have got to learn to accept forgiveness.
If you can't accept the fact that the blood of Jesus Christ works and that you are forgiven, you will be miserable and lost.
A lot of Christians, especially Adventists, are going to be messed up because they do not believe they're forgiven.
And Eloise, I'll show you the quote tomorrow.
I'll show you tomorrow.
If you do not accept forgiveness, it will lead to you receiving the mark of the beast.
Shame, if the devil's too.
All of these are part of the beating of addiction.
So there's the group therapy, of course it's not up there.
Groups like alcohol is not as narcotics anonymous.
Our churches, even if it was just in a district or regionally, we should have groups that are Christian and Adventist that you can come to and get help with these addictions.
Something that our church has to look at.
There's a lot of ways we evangelize, but this is the kind of stuff that really would reach people of all socioeconomic status.
would reach all kinds of people.
So I just want to give some practical stuff.
These are apps for overcoming porn addiction.
All I know is what little descriptions I have here.
Quitter, Quit Porn Now, BrainBuddy, helps you wire the brain through structured program backed by Addiction Science.
Fortify, Quit Porn for Good, Focus on Education, there's a whole bunch of these.
Relay offers small private peer groups and accountability for quitting pornography.
Porn addiction calendar simple track tracking app that logs time since last use and gives motivational reminders and badges ever accountable focus on the accountability flags questionable content For a partner or a sponsor to help resist urges this one is good because you have the app But someone else has it with you and if you get the urge or something you go start going in that path It warns the other person and they can call you and pray with you and and hopefully help you to avoid it
Covenant Eyes, combines filtering, blocking with activity reporting.
Victory, companion app, often used with Covenant Eyes, that helps identify patterns and triggers what gets you into porn use.
Sober Grid, these are for general addiction.
Normal, normal, sobriety clocks.
Sober Tool, you guys take pictures and look at this later.
R Tribe, I just want to show all these up because there's tools that you can use.
Apps for blocking, focus and habit change.
Canopy, freedom, app block.
Digital well-being, Android, screen time, all this is here.
And some of the tips for using this is here.
Pair blocking tools and accountability tools, blocks reduced access, track progress, use community support, combined with real therapy and counseling, right?
Proverbs 24, I'm gonna end with this, these last few slides here.
Proverbs 24, 16 says, for a just man falls seven times and rises up again, but the wicked shall fall into mischief.
I show you this because sometimes what you got to understand is that relapse itself is a part of recovery.
Sometimes you will fall.
Sometimes you will make a mistake.
And what the devil want you to say is, I fell.
I clearly am not right.
I'm not making any progress.
I'm not going back.
If you can learn from your fall like Moses must have when he struck the rock, you can still be resurrected.
Right?
Look at that verse again.
for a just man falls seven times and rises up again.
Your mistake in the moment does not define you.
God is willing to take you back.
He wants you to overcome.
Romans seven, 23 says, but I see another law in my members warring against the law of my mind and bringing me into captivity to law of sin, which is in my members.
Then Paul says this,
Oh wretched man that I am.
Who shall deliver me from the body of this death?
It looks like your body is just working against you.
Then he says in verse 25, I thank God through Jesus Christ, our Lord.
So then with my mind, I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh, the law of sin.
And then he switched to Romans eight one and says this, there is therefore now no condemnation to them, which are in Christ Jesus who walked not after the flesh.
but after the spirit, there is no condemnation.
John 3.16 says, for God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten son, and whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
Verse 17 is just as powerful.
It says, for God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but the world through him might be saved.
I came to tell you, Jesus is not looking to condemn you, he's looking to save you.
It doesn't matter what you did,
you're still worth saving.
And that's all he wants.
John 8, they answered him, we be Abraham seed.
And we are never in bondage to any man.
How says thou, you shall be made free.
Jesus answered them, verily, verily I say unto you, whosoever commits sin is the servant, the slave of sin.
And the servant abides not in the house forever, but the son abides forever.
If the son therefore shall make you free, you shall be free indeed.
If you are in this bondage,
You're not a son, you're a servant.
God wants you in the family to be free from chains.
I'll close with this quick story.
If you've heard my sermons online, you've heard me say it before, but it fits.
I'm saying it again.
I was working at the Veterans Hospital.
42-year-old man came in.
I was just out of, I was just a year, one year, I've done my intern year.
So it was my first year in the actual preventive medicine residency, doing my addiction medicine rotation.
42-year-old white man comes in.
sits down in the chair with me and says he wants to die.
Addiction treatment.
I said, if you want to die, why did you come to hospital?
He said, I thought it'd be easier for me to die here than anywhere else.
I said, what do you mean?
And he begins to tell me this story.
He was on the I-10 freeway, going from the Oloma Linda area out to Palm Springs.
He was high.
He was drunk.
He was swerving when he was driving.
They pulled him over.
When the California Highway Patrol pulled him over,
They saw he was high and drunk.
He was getting arrested.
They searched the car.
They found in his car, he had all the stuff you need to make crystal meth.
He had a crystal meth lab in a trunk of his car, ready to be set up in a motel.
They took him.
He was a veteran's hospital.
He's a combat veteran.
So they took him to jail.
He gets before the judge.
The judge, this man is fortunate.
The judge was also a combat veteran.
And the judge understood what that means, the PTSD and how that you suffer.
So the judge says to him, all right, I'm going to give you two options.
You can go to prison for a long time based on the charges, or you can go to veterans hospital and get clean.
The man looked at me and said, I chose to come here because I thought it'd be easier to die here than in prison.
And I said to myself, I remember praying, I asked God, I said, Lord, what do I tell this man?
And the word of God fell on me and the spirit of God fell on me and I looked at the man and I said, do you know who Jesus is?
The man's response blew me away.
He said, he is the Christ, the son of the living God.
And I said, wait a minute.
If you know that, why do you want to die?
He said, because he said, doc, I've done too much wrong for God to ever accept me.
I said, why do you want to die?
He said, two years ago, my mother died.
A year ago, my father died.
He said, two weeks ago, my dog died.
I just want to die.
I've done too much wrong for Christ to ever accept me.
Then what he does, he goes into a whole diatribe and he starts when he was sexually abused as a child, how he lived in sexual sin, the drugs he did, the crimes he committed, I mean the violence he unleashed on other people.
He says when he was at war overseas, he was married, his wife was cheating with one of his best friends, taking half his check.
He started to lay it all out and all the stuff he did, all the things he said, all the drugs he did, all the people he slept with, he laid it out and when he was done, he looked at me with a smirk on his face
as if to say, I told you I did too much wrong.
I took one of the progress note sheets from off the wall and I began to write, I didn't have no glow track.
So I started to write out the plan of salvation for this man.
I started in heaven, talked about how Satan deceived a third of the angels and was kicked out of heaven.
And I went to the Garden of Eden
how Eve was fooled.
And I jumped to Bethlehem, how Christ condescended to this earth so that he could save lost man.
And I took him to Calvary where Jesus died for our sins.
And I took him to the tomb where Christ rose triumphant.
I showed him where Christ ascended and is now at the right hand of God, now in the most holy place in heaven.
And he's working on your behalf.
I said he did all that.
And I said, sir, he would have done it all.
just for you.
He was stoic up until this point.
But when I said it would have been, he said, you mean Jesus would have died just for me?
In that moment, a tear began to run down his face.
And I was talking to the man.
He said, and he looks at me as he's starting to fight back the tears.
He looks at me, he says, how do you know he did this?
He would do this for me.
I raised my hand and I looked at him and I said, because he saved.
a wretch like me.
He and I fell on the floor of the veterans hospital there in Loma Linda and they're on the floor.
We called on the name of the Lord.
He confessed his sins.
He claimed Jesus Christ as his savior.
He wept on the floor and accepted Christ.
A week later, I saw that man in the hallway in Osmond Long.
That man came running down the hallway.
He saw me on rounds.
He said, brother doctor, brother doctor.
And he ran down and he threw his arms around me and he hugged me.
And he said, I got to tell you something.
He says, since we prayed one week ago, he said, I do not even have the desire for drugs and alcohol.
He said, doc, I can't explain it.
It's gone.
I said, that's awesome.
How's everything else going?
He said, well, the only other problem I have is they keep kicking me out of the narcotics anonymous and alcoholics anonymous meetings.
I said, why are they kicking you out?
He said, they're kicking me out because I call on the name of Jesus too much in the meetings.
I saw that man a year or two later, and I was moonlighting in the emergency room of that hospital.
Still Christian.
Still sober.
Still on the right side of things.
Let me tell you something.
I have learned.
that there's power in the name of the Lord.
And I want to leave somebody today.
This is our last session.
So we're going to make an appeal.
If you say, listen, I want victory.
I want deliverance.
I want to live for Christ.
I want to be like Christ.
I want you to stand with me now.
And we are going to pray a prayer of power and deliverance at GYC now 2026.
We're going to pray a prayer of deliverance here at GYC that we are not going to go home the way we came.
We're not going to do 2026 like we did some of the other years.
We are going into this new year, new creatures in Christ Jesus.
And we are not going in carrying shame.
We're coming in, going in carrying the righteousness of Christ.
We're going to be made over to be more like Jesus this year.
As every head is bowed and every eye is closed.
Father God, we thank you for this opportunity.
to serve you.
We thank you for the blood of Jesus.
We thank you for what you did on the cross.
We thank you Lord, because you died to set free a sinner like me.
Father God, there's somebody in here now that liked the man and the story felt like, maybe I've done too much wrong.
I can't be saved.
Lord the devil is a liar.
Let that individual know that yes, you can still break chains and set men free.
Lord, there's a young lady in here who,
says, you know, maybe, but maybe I'm just not worthwhile.
Maybe I just let them know, Lord, that you are the apple of their eye.
They are the apple of your eye, Lord.
And that you came so that that young lady would have life and life more abundantly.
And then father God, there's someone here who have gone deep into pornographic sin, some that started it when they were just children.
They don't know how to fully shake that thing today in the name of Jesus.
And by the power of his blood,
set them free.
Today, Lord, I ask that you break the chains and let them walk free from that thing.
There are others in here, Lord, maybe it's alcohol, cigarettes, marijuana, maybe it's a combination of things.
It doesn't matter.
No matter, no matter how bad because we're sinned up the bound, grace does much more abound.
Let them experience your grace right now.
And Lord, let your love constrain us to be like Jesus.
But I don't want to finish this prayer without saying this.
Lord, there are many of us who have people in our family.
Some have children, some have siblings, some have parents, some have friends that are Lord addiction.
Mental illness has just wrapped them up today.
Lord, we give you permission to work on behalf of our loved ones.
We give you permission for the Holy spirit to go in for demons to be cast out and for righteousness of their mind to be restored today.
Lord, we pray on their behalf.
that Lord, victory would come to them.
As we pray now that victory comes to each one of us.
This is our prayer in Jesus' precious and holy name.
Let the church say amen.
Amen, amen.
This media was produced by Audioverse for GYC, Generation Youth Christ.
If you would like to learn more about GYC, please visit gycweb.org.
Or if you would like to listen to more sermons, download the free Audioverse app
or visit audioverse.org.